>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 6...
FORMER FIRST LADY NANCY REAGAN
HAS DIED.
WE WILL LOOK BACK AT HER LIFE
AND HER IMPACT ON THE NATION.
AND THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN-- LEADING NOW TO
MICHIGAN AND MISSISSIPPI AFTER
THE TOP CANDIDATES SPLIT
VICTORIES IN YESTERDAY'S
PRIMARIES AND CAUCUSES.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
NANCY REAGAN DIED TODAY AT HER
HOME IN BEL AIR, CALIFORNIA.
SHE WAS 94.
THE CAUSE WAS CONGESTIVE HEART
FAILURE.
SHE WAS FIRST LADY FROM 1981 TO
1989, DURING THE TWO TERMS OF
RONALD REAGAN'S PRESIDENCY.
NANCY REAGAN ONCE SAID, "MY LIFE
REALLY BEGAN WHEN I MARRIED MY
HUSBAND."
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS MORE.
>> Woodruff: SHE WAS AT ONCE A
TRADITIONAL FIRST LADY AND A
POWER PLAYER.
NANCY REAGAN SAID AS MUCH
HERSELF AT A 1985 LUNCHEON,
SHOWN YEARS LATER IN THIS PBS
DOCUMENTARY.
>> I SEE THE FIRST LADY AS
ANOTHER MEANS TO KEEP A
PRESIDENT FROM BECOMING
ISOLATED.
I TALK TO PEOPLE.
THEY TELL ME THINGS.
AND IF SOMETHING IS ABOUT TO
BECOME A PROBLEM, I'M NOT ABOVE
CALLING A STAFF PERSON AND
ASKING ABOUT IT.
I'M A WOMAN WHO LOVES HER
HUSBAND AND I MAKE NO APOLOGIES
FOR LOOKING OUT FOR HIS PERSONAL
AND POLITICAL WELFARE.
>> Woodruff: SHE WAS BORN ANNE
FRANCES ROBBINS IN NEW YORK IN
1921, THE ONLY CHILD OF A
SALESMAN AND AN OFTEN-ABSENT
ACTRESS MOTHER.
AFTER GRADUATING FROM SMITH
COLLEGE, SHE BECAME AN ACTRESS
HERSELF.
BILLED AS "NANCY DAVIS," TAKING
THE LAST NAME OF HER ADOPTIVE
FATHER, SHE LANDED A ROLE ON
BROADWAY AND THEN WENT TO
HOLLYWOOD.
THERE, SHE MET RONALD REAGAN IN
1951.
>> HE WAS UNLIKE ANY ACTOR I'D
EVER KNOWN.
>> Woodruff: SHE RECALLED HER
INITIAL IMPRESSIONS OF REAGAN,
FOR THAT PBS DOCUMENTARY IN
2011.
>> HE NEVER TALKED ABOUT
HIMSELF.
HAD A WHOLE WORLD OUT THERE THAT
HE WAS INVOLVED WITH.
HE WAS VERY APPEALING TO ME.
GOOD LOOKING AND ATTRACTIVE.
I JUST WANTED TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
HIM.
>> Woodruff: THEY WERE MARRIED
IN A SMALL CEREMONY IN 1952-- IT
WAS RONALD REAGAN'S SECOND--
AND THEY WENT ON TO HAVE TWO
CHILDREN, PATTI AND RON.
ON SCREEN, THEY EVEN STARRED
OPPOSITE ONE ANOTHER IN 1957'S
"HELLCATS OF THE NAVY."
THEN, AFTER YEARS IN THE MOVIES
AND TELEVISION, THE COUPLE
TURNED TO REPUBLICAN POLITICS.
RONALD REAGAN WAS ELECTED
GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA IN 1966,
AND RE-ELECTED FOUR YEARS LATER.
>> WE WANT REAGAN!
>> Woodruff: IN 1980, HE WON THE
WHITE HOUSE IN A LANDSLIDE,
DEFEATING A SITTING DEMOCRAT,
JIMMY CARTER.
>> I, RONALD REAGAN, DO SOLEMNLY
SWEAR...
>> Woodruff: THE FOLLOWING
JANUARY, HE TOOK THE OATH AS THE
40TH PRESIDENT, AND NANCY REAGAN
BECAME FIRST LADY.
BUT CRISIS STRUCK AFTER JUST 69
DAYS IN OFFICE.
THE NEW PRESIDENT NARROWLY
SURVIVED BEING SHOT IN AN
ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT IN
DOWNTOWN WASHINGTON.
>> I HAD NEVER SEEN ANYONE SO
WHITE, REALLY WHITE.
THAT WAS WHEN HE SAID "HONEY, I
FORGOT TO DUCK."
>> Woodruff: AS MRS. REAGAN
REMEMBERED, THE COUNTRY DID NOT
REALIZE AT FIRST HOW CLOSE A
CALL IT WAS.
>> ALL PEOPLE WERE BEING TOLD
WAS, "HONEY, I FORGOT TO DUCK."
THAT'S WHAT THEY WERE BEING
TOLD, SO THEY OBVIOUSLY ASSUMED
HE WAS OKAY.
HE WASN'T OKAY.
I ALMOST LOST HIM.
>> Woodruff: AFTER THAT, THE
FIRST LADY BECAME EVEN MORE
PROTECTIVE OF HER HUSBAND,
AND SHE PLAYED A PIVOTAL ROLE
DURING HIS EIGHT YEARS IN THE
OVAL OFFICE, SERVING AS A
SOUNDING BOARD AND WEIGHING IN
ON MAJOR PERSONNEL DECISIONS.
>> SHE WAS THE INDISPENSABLE
PERSON IN HIS POLITICAL SUCCESS,
SAVE AND EXCEPT HE HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff: JAMES BAKER WAS
REAGAN'S WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF.
>> SHE HAD A WONDERFUL POLITICAL
ANTENNA.
SHE HAD A GOOD FEEL FOR
POLITICS.
SHE COULD BE VERY INSTRUMENTAL
AND HELPFUL, NOT THAT HE WOULD
ACCEPT HER JUDGMENT ALL THE TIME
BECAUSE HE WOULDN'T, BUT SHE
COULD NUDGE AND GENTLY CAJOLE
AND FIND A WAY TO MOVE HIM
FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, SHE
PRIVATELY HELPED NUDGE HER
HUSBAND TOWARD A HISTORIC POLICY
SHIFT, A WARMING IN RELATIONS
WITH THE THEN-SOVIET UNION.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE FIRST LADY
DREW NOTICE-- AND SOMETIMES
CRITICISM-- FOR HER GLAMOROUS
TASTES...
FOR THE COSTS OF RENOVATING AND
REDECORATING THE EXECUTIVE
MANSION...
AND FOR LAVISH ENTERTAINING IN
THE MIDST OF A RECESSION.
BUT SHE ALSO USED HER PLATFORM
TO SPEAK OUT ON SOCIAL ISSUES.
HER MAJOR INITIATIVE BEGAN IN
1982-- THE "JUST SAY NO" DRUG
AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.
MRS. REAGAN ULTIMATELY TRAVELED
NEARLY 250,000 MILES,
CAMPAIGNING AGAINST DRUG ABUSE.
>> NOBODY WANTED ME TO DO THAT.
THEY SAID, "IT'S A REAL DOWNER,
YOU DON'T WANT TO DO THAT."
I SAID, "YES, I DO."
BECAUSE BY THAT TIME I WAS
FINDING OUT FROM HOME A LOT OF
MY FRIENDS' CHILDREN, CHILDREN
HAD GOTTEN INVOLVED AND MANY OF
THEM HAD COMMITTED SUICIDE.
>> Woodruff: AFTER TWO TERMS,
THE REAGANS LEFT OFFICE IN
JANUARY 1989, RETURNED TO
CALIFORNIA AND RETIRED IN THE
AFFLUENT LOS ANGELES
NEIGHBORHOOD OF BEL AIR.
IN 1994, IN A LETTER TO THE
NATION, THE FORMER PRESIDENT
REVEALED HE'D BEEN DIAGNOSED
WITH ALZHEIMER'S.
AFTER THAT, HE REMAINED LARGELY
IN SECLUSION.
>> NOT MANY PEOPLE SAW HIM AT
THAT POINT.
I DIDN'T LET THEM SEE HIM.
I DIDN'T WANT THEM TO HAVE THE
MEMORY OF HIM LIKE THAT AND I
KNEW HE WOULDN'T WANT THEM TO
SEE HIM LIKE THAT.
>> Woodruff: DURING THOSE YEARS,
THE FORMER FIRST LADY MADE A
RARE PUBLIC APPEARANCE AT THE
1996 REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
CONVENTION IN SAN DIEGO.
>> THE LOVE AND AFFECTION FROM
THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS HAS BEEN
AND CONTINUES TO BE A
STRENGTHENING FORCE FOR RONNIE
AND ME EACH AND EVERY DAY.
WE HAVE LEARNED AS TOO MANY
OTHER FAMILIES HAVE LEARNED OF
THE TERRIBLE PAIN AND LONELINESS
THAT MUST BE ENDURED AS EACH DAY
BRINGS ANOTHER REMINDER OF THIS
VERY LONG GOODBYE.
>> Woodruff: FORMER PRESIDENT
REAGAN DIED IN 2004 AT THE AGE
OF 93.
AFTER A STATE FUNERAL IN
WASHINGTON, HE WAS LAID TO REST
IN SIMI VALLEY, CALIFORNIA, ON
THE GROUNDS OF HIS PRESIDENTIAL
LIBRARY.
WITH HIS PASSING, NANCY REAGAN
BECAME AN ADVOCATE FOR STEM CELL
RESEARCH AND FINDING A CURE FOR
ALZHEIMER'S.
SHE ALSO LABORED TO PRESERVE HER
HUSBAND'S LEGACY AT HIS
PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY.
THEIR SON, RON, ASSESSED HIS
MOTHER'S OWN LEGACY, IN 2010.
>> I HOPE THAT HISTORY REMEMBERS
HER AS SOMEBODY WHO WAS... WHO
WAS DEDICATED TO THE PERSON SHE
LOVED MORE THAN ANYBODY ELSE ON
EARTH.
THAT'S WHAT HER LIFE HAS BEEN
ABOUT.
AND SHE DID HER VERY BEST TO
MAKE SURE THAT HE COULD DO HIS
VERY BEST.
>> Woodruff: NANCY REAGAN SPENT
HER CLOSING YEARS AT HER BEL AIR
HOME, MONITORING HER HUSBAND'S
LEGACY, UNTIL THE END.
>> Sreenivasan: REACTION TO
NANCY REAGAN'S DEATH CAME FROM
ALL QUARTERS.
PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY
MICHELLE OBAMA SAID, "OUR FORMER
FIRST LADY REDEFINED THE ROLE IN
HER TIME HERE.
LATER, IN HER LONG GOODBYE WITH
PRESIDENT REAGAN, SHE BECAME A
VOICE ON BEHALF OF MILLIONS OF
FAMILIES GOING THROUGH THE
DEPLETING, ACHING REALITY OF
ALZHEIMER'S."
PRESIDENT AND MRS. CLINTON SAID,
"NANCY WAS AN EXTRAORDINARY
WOMAN: A GRACIOUS FIRST LADY,
PROUD MOTHER, AND DEVOTED WIFE
TO PRESIDENT REAGAN-- HER
RONNIE.
HER STRENGTH OF CHARACTER WAS
LEGENDARY."
PRESIDENT AND ROSALYNN CARTER
SAID, "HER 'JUST SAY NO'
CAMPAIGN PREVENTED MANY YOUNG
PEOPLE FROM FALLING PREY TO THE
ALLURE OF DRUG USE, AND HER
ADVOCACY OF STEM CELL RESEARCH
RAISED PUBLIC AWARENESS AND
INFLUENCED DECISION MAKERS ABOUT
VITAL RESEARCH FOR ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE."
FORMER FIRST LADY BARBARA BUSH
SAID: "NANCY REAGAN WAS TOTALLY
DEVOTED TO PRESIDENT REAGAN, AND
WE TAKE COMFORT THEY WILL BE
REUNITED ONCE MORE."
FORMER PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH,
ADDED, "THAT DEVOTION WAS
MATCHED ONLY BY HER DEVOTION TO
OUR COUNTRY."
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ON THE
LIFE OF NANCY REAGAN AND HER
INFLUENCE ON HER HUSBAND'S
PRESIDENCY, I AM JOINED BY
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN RICHARD
NORTON SMITH.
HE IS IN GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN.
I GREW UP IN AN ERA WHERE JUST
SAY NO WAS HOW I WOULD PROBABLY
HAVE MY FIRST CONTACT WITH NANCY
REAGAN, RIGHT.
BUT SHE WAS ALSO FAR MORE
INFLUENTIAL BEHIND THE SCENES,
TELL US A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
THAT?
>> I THINK THAT IS TRUE.
I THINK IN MANY WAYS THE HISTORY
OF THE REAGAN PRESIDENCY IS
STILL BEING WRITTEN IN PART
BECAUSE THE FULL EXTENT OF HER
INFLUENCE IS FAR FROM KNOWN.
I THINK SHE TOOK SOME PAINS TO
CONCEAL IT.
TO GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE, RONALD
REAGAN WAS REALLY AS GUILELESS,
FRIENDLY, TRUSTING AN
INDIVIDUAL AS HIS PUBLIC IMAGE
SUGGESTS.
AND THOSE ARE WONDERFUL
QUALITIES IN A HUMAN BEING.
BUT IN A PRESIDENT, THEY
INEVITABLY IMPOSE A BURDEN, A
COMPENSATORY BURDEN, IF YOU
WILL, MAYBE ON A CHIEF OF STAFF
OR IN SOME CASES ON A SPOUSE,
AND THAT WAS PART OF THE
UNWRITTEN JOB OF THE FIRST LADY.
AND SOME DO IT BETTER THAN
OTHERS.
MRS. REAGAN DID IT SUPERBLY.
IT IS ABSOLUTELY TRUE HER
OVERRIDING OBJECTIVE WAS TO
PROTECT THE MAN SHE LOVED.
AND SHE HAD EXCELLENT INSTINCTS.
SHE COULD SPOT A PHONY A MILE
AWAY.
SHE COULD SPOT A SELF-SERVER
PROBABLY TWO MILES AWAY.
AND WASHINGTON AS WE ALL KNOW IS
REPLETE WITH BOTH.
>> AN HER ADVOCACY FOR STEM CELL
RESEARCH WHICH BROKE WITH
PRESIDENT BUSH.
>> YEAH, SHE WAS NOT AFRAID TO
CHALLENGE PERHAPS POLITICAL
ORTHODOXY.
AND THAT IS-- YOU KNOW, THAT SAN
EXCELLENT EXAMPLE.
OF COURSE IN HER CASE IT WAS AN
INTENSELY PERSONAL CAUSE.
AFTER ALL, SHE WAS LIVING WITH
ALZHEIMER DISEASE, AS WERE-- AS
ARE MILLIONS OF OTHER AMERICAN
HOUSEHOLDS.
AND IT'S NOT SURPRISING JUST ON
A PERSONAL LEVEL THAT SHE WOULD
TAKE SUCH AN INTEREST AND SUCH A
VIEW.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST TIME A
LOT OF PEOPLE MIGHT HAVE SEEN
HER WOULD HAVE BEEN AT THE
PASSING OF PRESIDENT REAGAN.
BUT WHAT DID SHE DO IN THE LAST
FEW YEARS OF HER LIFE.
I KNOW SHE WAS INVOLVED IN THE
REAGAN LIBRARY.
>> THE LIBRARY I THINK WAS A
GREAT-- A GREAT SOURCE OF PRIDE.
AND ACTIVITIES.
SHE WAS VERY ACTIVE FROM BEFORE
THE LIBRARY WAS BUILT.
SHE AND THE PRESIDENT WERE BOTH
VERY ACTIVE IN THE BUILDING
DESIGN.
I REMEMBER SITTING IN MEETINGS
WHERE EXHIBITS WERE BEING
CONSIDERED.
AND I REMEMBER THINKING, YOU
KNOW, THIS WOMAN HAS A VERY GOOD
EYE.
SHE HAD A REMARKABLE VISUAL
SENSE.
SHE COULD LOOK AT A STORY BOARD
WHICH FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE IS A
FOREIGN KIND OF LANGUAGE.
AND GET IT IMMEDIATELY WHAT THE
POINT OF AN EXHIBIT WAS.
AND ANYWAY, SHE WAS VERY ACTIVE
IN THE LIBRARY.
SHE USED TO COME UP REGULARLY,
DO BOOK SIGNINGS.
AND I THINK SHE STAYED PRETTY
ACTIVE REALLY ALMOST UP UNTIL
THE END.
I THINK SHE HAD A LOT OF
FRIENDS.
SHE WASN'T A RECLUSE.
AND OF COURSE SHE WAS
MRS. RONALD REAGAN.
AND I THINK TO THE DAY SHE DIED,
THAT WAS WHAT IN MANY WAYS DE
FINED HER.
>> PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN
RICHARD NORTON SMITH GROINING US
FROM GRAND RAPID, MICHIGAN.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: TURNING NOW TO
THE 2016 RACE FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE, MAINE IS HOLDING
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUSES WHILE
PUERTO RICO HELD A REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY, WHICH WAS WON BY
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO, HIS SECOND
WIN THIS PRIMARY SEASON,
FOLLOWING THE MINNESOTA CAUCUSES
LAST WEEK.
THESE FOLLOW YESTERDAY'S
PRIMARIES AND CAUCUSES IN FIVE
STATES.
NEW YORK BUSINESSMAN DONALD
TRUMP WON THE TWO BIGGEST
REPUBLICAN PRIZES-- THE
LOUISIANA PRIMARY AND KENTUCKY
CAUCUS-- WHILE TEXAS SENATOR TED
CRUZ WON CAUCUSES IN KANSAS AND
MAINE.
>> GOD BLESS KANSAS AND GOD
BLESS MAINE.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP NOW LEADS
IN DELEGATES NEEDED TO WIN THE
REPUBLICAN NOMINATION WITH 382,
BUT HE'S ONLY A THIRD OF THE WAY
TO THE 1,237 NEEDED.
CRUZ HAS 300 DELEGATES, FLORIDA
SENATOR MARCO RUBIO HAS 128, AND
OHIO GOVERNOR JOHN KASICH 35.
HILLARY CLINTON WON THE
DEMOCRATS' LOUISIANA PRIMARY
WITH 71 PERCENT OF THE VOTE,
WHILE VERMONT SENATOR BERNIE
SANDERS EASILY WON CAUCUSES IN
KANSAS AND NEBRASKA, SEVEN
STATES IN ALL.
>> WE HAVE COME A VERY, VERY
LONG WAY CLOSING THE GAP
NATIONALLY WITH SECRETARY
CLINTON.
>> Sreenivasan: EXCEPT CLINTON
NOW HAS 1,121 DELEGATES, ABOUT
HALFWAY TO THE NUMBER NEEDED TO
WIN THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION,
AND SANDERS HAS 481 DELEGATES.
>> I HAVE GOTTEN MORE VOTES THAN
ANYBODY RUNNING ON EITHER SIDE.
>> Sreenivasan: CLINTON'S
DELEGATE LEAD IS BOOSTED BY
PLEDGES FROM MORE THAN 400
SUPERDELEGATES-- PARTY OFFICIALS
WHO VOTE ON THE NOMINEE AT THE
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
AFTER YESTERDAY'S DISAPPOINTING
SHOWING, RUBIO VOWED TO STAY IN
THE REPUBLICAN RACE AT LEAST
UNTIL HIS HOME STATE PRIMARY ON
MARCH 15.
>> HERE'S THE BOTTOM LINE: THERE
WILL BE MORE DELEGATES AWARDED
IN FLORIDA THAN BASICALLY EVERY
STATE THAT VOTED TONIGHT
COMBINED.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP IS CALLING
ON RUBIO TO DROP OUT.
>> I WOULD LOVE TO TAKE ON TED
ONE ON ONE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE REPUBLICAN
NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN SAID
TODAY HE'S NOT WORRYING ABOUT A
BROKERED CONVENTION OR A DIVIDED
PARTY.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING WRONG WITH DRAMA AND
INTRIGUE, AND WE'VE GOT PLENTY
OF THAT.
NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
THE KEY IS CAN YOU GET TO A
NOMINEE, COME TOGETHER AND THEN
TAKE IT TO THE DEMOCRATS.
I THINK WE'LL GET THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EYES OF THE
POLITICAL WORLD NOW TURN TO
MICHIGAN, WHICH HOLDS THE
BIGGEST OF FOUR PRIMARIES OR
CAUCUSES ON TUESDAY, WITH MORE
DELEGATES AT STAKE FOR THE
DEMOCRATS THAN ALL OF THIS
WEEKEND'S CONTESTS COMBINED.
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATES HILLARY
CLINTON AND BERNIE SANDERS MEET
ON THE DEBATE STAGE TONIGHT IN
FLINT, MICHIGAN.
FOR MORE ON THE CAMPAIGN THERE,
I AM JOINED NOW BY MICHIGAN
PUBLIC RADIO REPORTER RICK PLUTA
FROM ANN ARBOR.
>> A PLEASURE.
>> RICK, AS OF NOW WHERE DO THE
POLLS STAND?
>> WELL, IT SEEMS LIKE THE
POLLING WOULD SUGGEST THAT
HILLARY CLINTON IS FAR AND AWAY
A FRONTRUNNER BASED LARGELY ON
HAVING LOCKED DOWN THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTE WHICH IS
CRITICAL IN A MICHIGAN
DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY.
BERNIE SANDERS IN SOME POLLS
HAVE HIM TRAILING BY AS MUCH AS
30 POINTS.
HE'S TRYING TO TURN THIS IN TO A
REFERENDUM ON FREE TRADE
AGREEMENTS WHICH HILLARY CLINTON
HAS MORE OF A HISTORY OF
SUPPORTING THAN HE DOES.
ON THE REPUBLICAN SIDE, IT'S
BASICALLY A RACE TO SEE IF
ANYONE CAN STOP DONALD TRUMP.
OHIO GOVERNOR JOHN KASICH IS
PROBABLY BETTING BIGGEST IN
MICHIGAN.
HE SPENT THE MOST TIME HERE AND
COVERED THE MOST GROUND FROM THE
SOUTHERN PART OF THE STATE TO
METRO DETROIT, ALL THE WAY TO
THE MARQUETTE IN THE UPPER
PENINSULA WHICH HAS JUST 3% OF
THE STATE'S POPULATION.
SO HE HAS INVESTED A LOT HERE.
AND A LOT OF REPUBLICANS ARE
TRYING TO LAY CLAIM TO SUITE
EAST MICHIGAN'S SO CALLED REAGAN
DEMOCRATS, ESPECIALLY IN MA COMB
COUNTY TRYING TO MAKE THE CASE
THAT THEY CAN APPEAL TO
CROSSOVER VOTERS AS WELL OR
BETTER THAN DONALD TRUMP WHO IS
LEADING IN ALMOST ALL THE POLLS
RIGHT NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN WITH ALL
THE WORK THAT KASICH HAS PUT IN,
TRUMP STILL LOOKS LIKE HE HAD A
LEAD.
ANY IDEA IF THE MOMENTUM THAT
SAY TED CRUZ MIGHT HAVE PICKED
UP LAST NIGHT TRANSLATES INTO
MORE CONSERVATIVE MICHIGANERS?
>> IT'S POSSIBLE THAT CRUZ
CERTAINLY HAS AN ORGANIZATION IN
MICHIGAN.
BUT CRUZ HIMSELF HAS NOT VISITED
THE STATE SINCE SUPER TUESDAY,
EXCEPT FOR THE REPUBLICAN DEBATE
IN DETROIT.
SO IT BEGS THE QUESTION, HOW
HARD HE'S-- HOW HARD HE'S
PLAYING HERE.
CERTAINLY MARCO RUBIO HAS TRIED
A BIT.
MICHIGAN WAS REALLY SUPPOSED TO
BE JEB BUSH COUNTRY.
AND A LOT OF THE STATE'S
STANDARD REPUBLICAN POLITICAL
CULTURE WAS GETTING BEHIND HIM.
SO WHEN HE DROPPED OUT THERE
WERE A LOT OF PEOPLE SORT OF
WONDERING WHERE TO GO.
AND THAT SUPPORT HAS LARGELY
SCATTERED AMONG THE OTHER
CANDIDATES.
>> Sreenivasan: AND TONIGHT'S
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE PUTS A
SPOTLIGHT ONCE AGAIN ON FLINT
AND THE WATER CRISIS THERE.
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY.
THAT DEMOCRATS HAVE TRIED TO
MAKE A NATIONAL ISSUE OF FLINT
AS REPRESENTING REPUBLICAN
INCOMPETENCE WHEN IT WHEN IT
COMES TO GOVERNING.
THAT IS ONE OF THE BIG REASONS
WHY AFTER THE FLINT DEBATE WAS
CONVENED BY DEMOCRATIC PARTY
LEADERS THAT REPUBLICANS FELT
LIKE THEY HAD TO PUT SOMETHING
IN DETROIT.
WHICH WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
SOMETHING OF A SUCCESS STORY IN
URBAN RENEWAL.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHIGAN
PUBLIC RADIO REPORTER RICK PLUTA
JOINING US FROM ANN ARBOR TODAY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: IN IRAQ, ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS ARE CLAIMING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR TODAY'S
SUICIDE TRUCK-BOMBING THAT
KILLED AT LEAST 60 PEOPLE AND
OFFICIALS SAY THE ISIS OPERATIVE
DROVE A FUEL TRUCK CARRYING
BOMBS INTO A CROWDED CHECKPOINT
IN THE CITY OF HILLAH, 60 MILES
SOUTH OF BAGHDAD.
MOST OF THE PEOPLE KILLED WERE
CIVILIANS.
THE REST WERE MEMBERS OF IRAQ'S
SECURITY FORCES.
THIS WAS THE THIRD MASSIVE
SUICIDE BOMBING IN THE BAGHDAD
AREA IN THE PAST WEEK.
IN TURKEY, THE COUNTRY'S BIGGEST
NEWSPAPER, ZAMAN, HAS PUBLISHED
ITS FIRST EDITION SINCE BEING
TAKEN OVER BY THE GOVERNMENT.
THE NEW ZAMAN TODAY FEATURED
ARTICLES FLATTERING TURKISH
PRESIDENT RECEP ERDOGAN.
BEFORE ITS SEIZURE FRIDAY, ZAMAN
WAS OWNED BY A LEADING OPPONENT
OF ERDOGAN LIVING IN THE U.S.
ALSO PUBLISHED TODAY WAS THE
FIRST ISSUE OF AN ALTERNATIVE
NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED BY FIRED
ZAMAN JOURNALISTS CALLED "LOOK
TO TOMORROW."
ITS LEAD STORY WAS ABOUT POLICE
DISPERSING ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTESTERS WITH TEAR GAS AND
RUBBER BULLETS.
HUMAN RIGHTS GROUPS AND EUROPEAN
OFFICIALS HAVE DENOUNCED THE
NEWSPAPER TAKEOVER AS A SETBACK
FOR FREEDOM OF THE PRESS.
AHEAD OF TOMORROW'S EUROPEAN
UNION SUMMIT, THE E.U. PRESIDENT
SAYS THE NUMBER OF ILLEGAL
ARRIVALS FROM TURKEY INTO GREECE
REMAINS TOO HIGH.
GREEK PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS
TSIPRAS ADDED TODAY HE IS
SEEKING AN AGREEMENT TO
IMMEDIATELY MOVE MIGRANTS
STRANDED IN GREECE.
13,000 ARE STRANDED AT A CAMP IN
IDOMENI, GREECE, NEAR THE
MACEDONIAN BORDER.
WITH LITTLE FOOD AND SUPPLIES,
MIGRANTS ARE SLEEPING IN MUDDY
FIELDS WHILE WAITING AND HOPING
TO PASS INTO NORTHERN AND
CENTRAL EUROPE.
BUT WITH ENCOURAGEMENT FROM
NEIGHBORING SLOVENIA, CROATIA,
AND HUNGARY, MACEDONIA IS WAVING
THROUGH REFUGEES ONLY FROM
CITIES CONSIDERED ACTIVELY UNDER
SIEGE, SUCH AS ALEPPO, SYRIA,
BUT NOT THE SYRIAN CAPITAL OF
DAMASCUS.
TODAY, THE GREEK COAST GUARD
RESCUED 400 MIGRANTS ON THE
AEGEAN SEA, IN BOUND FROM
TURKEY.
BUT 18 MIGRANTS DROWNED WHEN
THEIR BOAT SANK.
THE E.U. HAS PROMISED TURKEY $3
BILLION DOLLARS TO HANDLE AND
SLOW THE FLOW OF TWO MILLION
SYRIAN REFUGEES LIVING IN
TURKEY.
FINALLY, PEYTON MANNING IS
RETIRING AFTER 18 SEASONS IN THE
NFL.
HE'LL MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT
TOMORROW IN DENVER.
THE FIVE-TIME MVP WON HIS
SECOND SUPER BOWL WITH THE
BRONCOS IN HIS FINAL GAME LAST
MONTH.
TONIGHT DOWNTON ABBEY ENDS
ITS RUN AFTER SIX SEASONS.
THE SAGA OF THE GRANTHAM FAMILY
IS THE MOST WATCHED DRAMA IN PBS
HISTORY.
TOMORROW JUDY WOODRUFF HITS THE
ROAD TO SEE AMERICAN CITIES ON
THE REBOUND.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.